---
layout: page
title: Giftedness Research
description: Giftedness research page
---
<span style="color:MidnightBlue"><ins>**Dissertation:**</ins></span><br>
<span style="color:Teal">Structural and functional neuromarkers of high general cognitive ability *(g)* (2018, University Pierre and Marie Curie, Paris VI)</span>

>**Abstract.** _**Introduction.**_ In today intelligence research, one question raises many challenges and ethical questions for the (near) future: what does a smart brain look like? The considerable improvements made in brain imaging open new and promising ways to examine this issue. _**Objective.**_ This short essay aims at reviewing some of the most recent studies about the structural and functional correlates of human intelligence. _**Results.**_ Since the publication of the parieto-frontal integration theory (P-FIT) of intelligence in 2007 by Jung and Haier, dozens of studies have been focused on the neural particularities of gifted individuals. An increased involvement of the bilateral frontoparietal network through preferential activation of the posterior parietal regions, an enhanced interhemispheric connectivity, increased activations in Brodmann areas 7 and 40 (superior and intraparietal cortices) and a greater integration in brain mechanisms appear to be important neuromarkers of higher human intelligence. _**Perspectives.**_ This review illustrates the critical necessity to move from a group-based approach to an individual-based brain imaging research, in order to design interventions best fitted for each individual regarding their profile and the ability of interest to enhance, repair or improve.

[click here to read the dissertation]({{BASE_PATH}}/pages/working_papers/Mémoire_Morgane_Aubineau_final.pdf)

<span style="color:MidnightBlue"><ins>**In preparation:**</ins></span><br>
<span style="color:Teal">Aubineau,M. Uncovering the neural circuits of learning motivation in intellectually gifted individuals</span>

**Note:** The paper is currently in preparation. I am open to collaboration to publish the article and design experimental research to examine the relationship between motivation and learning in intellectually gifted children or teenagers. 

>**Abstract.** (submitted for the HBP conference in Pisa, January 2020)<br>
_**Introduction.**_ A century of research demonstrated that high general cognitive ability (g) is related to a broad set of positive social correlates, including greater educational achievements, more efficient job performance, better mental and physical health, or longevity [1]. Because of their relevance for the entire society, intellectually gifted individuals can be seen as potential “outstanding creators of modern culture” [2]. Hence, children with high abilities are potential high achievers. However, they might fail to realize their potential because of various obstacles, including unchallenging curriculum, one of the major factors causing underachievement  in gifted students and a great loss for our society.<br>
Why gifted children are so eager to learn and question the world? What drives their insatiable curiosity that can lead to outstanding achievement and innovation, well beyond average?<br> 
Despite the relevance of these questions, the neurological study of intellectual giftedness – i.e. understanding the neural architecture and processes that support such a level of performance – has received very limited attention.  Most neuroimaging studies on high intelligence focused on specific cognitive abilities, such as mathematical or memory abilities, usually with small samples [3]. Furthermore, almost no research has studied the relationship between the neural bases of intellectual giftedness and the neural circuit of motivation. Thus, this review will also provide new knowledge to help answering an exciting question from Ericsson and Pool: “Is deliberate practice producing changes in the brain structures that regulate motivation and enjoyment?” (p.192) [4].<br> 
As highlighted by Haier [5] “the ultimate purpose of intelligence research is to enhance general cognitive ability”. In this perspective, understanding how very efficient brains work and how motivational brain circuits influence and shape learning can bring critical insights on how to foster learning motivation for every child, considering the new challenges and opportunities in modern education.  

_**Methods.**_ In order to help unconvering the neural processess underlying high cognitive ability (g) and its relation to motivation, the first step of this research project is writing a review about this surprisingly unexplored topic. 
The main eligibility criteria for the articles selection process are: papers written in English or in French, from any country, published between 2000 and 2019 in peer-reviewed journals. The review article follows the 27-item checklist and the four-phase flow diagram proposed by the PRISMA statement for reporting systematic reviews [6]. The table 1 presents the principal thesaurus created and used for the selection process.  

_**Results and Discussion.**_ The proposed abstract aims at presenting the results of this review (currently under examination) and proposing practical applications to support academic achievement by designing educational interventions that specifically target the motivational brain circuit. This theoretical work is the first step of an possible postdoctral research project that has wide interdisciplinary applications (from neurology, psychology to education and brain sciences) in a modern world with new challenges. As mentioned by the Center for Research and Interdisciplinary about the Open Science of Learning: “The need for a revolution in learning is clear. Many of our greatest current opportunities and pressing social challenges were unheard of a few decades ago — but our education systems have changed little”.  

